tcl ?-qn? ?-f? script? | ?-c command? ?args?

       The  tcl  starts the interactive TclX command interpreter.
       The TclX shell provides an environment for writing, debug-
       ging  and executing Tcl scripts.  The functionality of the
       TclX shell can be easily obtained by any application  that
       includes TclX.

       The  tcl command, issued without any arguments, invokes an
       interactive Tcl  shell,  allowing  the  user  to  interact
       directly  with Tcl, executing any Tcl commands at will and
       viewing their results.

       If script is specified, then the script is  executed  non-
       interactively  with  any additional arguments, args, being
       supplied in the global Tcl variable `argv'.  If command is
       supplied, then this command (or semicolon-separated series
       of commands) is executed, with `argv' containing any args.

       The  TclX shell is intended as an environment for Tcl pro-
       gram development and execution.  While it is not  a  full-
       featured  interactive  shell,  it  provides  a comfortable
       environment for the interactive development of Tcl code.

       The following command line flags are recognized by the Tcl
       shell command line parser:

       -q     Quick  initialization  flag.  The Tcl initiaization
              file is not evaluated and the auto_path variable is
              not  set.   Tcl  auto-load  libraries  will  not be
              available.

       -n     No procedure call stack dump.  The  procedure  call
              stack  will  not be displayed when an error occurs,
              only the error message.  Useful in the #!  line  of
              already debugged scripts.

       -f     Takes  the  next  argument  as  a script for Tcl to
              source, rather than entering interactive mode.  The
              -f  flag  is optional.  Normally the first argument
              that does not start with a  `-'  is  taken  as  the
              script  to execute unless the `-c' option is speci-
              fied.  Any following arguments are  passed  to  the
              script  via argv, thus any other Tcl shell command-
              line flags must precede this option.

       -c     Take the next argument as a Tcl command to execute.
              It may contain series of commands to execute, sepa-
              rated by `;'.  Any following arguments  are  passed
              in  argv,  thus,  as  with  -f, any other Tcl shell
              flags must precede this option.

       --     Mark the end of the arguments to the Tcl shell. All
              arguments  following  this  are  passed  in the Tcl
              variable argv.  This is useful  to  pass  arguments
              without attempting to execute a Tcl script.

       The  result string returned by a command executed from the
       Tcl shell command line is  normally  echoed  back  to  the
       user.   If an error occurs, then the string result is dis-
       played, along with the error message.  The  error  message
       will be preceded by the string ``Error:''.

       The  set  command  is  a  special case.  If the command is
       called to set a variable (i.e. with two  arguments),  then
       the  result will not be echoed.  If only one argument, the
       name of a variable, is supplied to set,  then  the  result
       will be echoed.

       If  an  unknown  Tcl  command  is entered from the command
       line, then the Unix command path, specified in  the  envi-
       ronment  variable  PATH, will be searched for a command of
       the same name.  If the command is found, it will  be  exe-
       cuted with any arguments remaining on the Tcl command line
       being passed as arguments to the command.  This feature is
       provided to enhance the interactive environment for devel-
       oping Tcl scripts.

       Automatic execution of programs in  this  manner  is  only
       supported from the command line, not in script files or in
       procedures, to reduce confusion and  mistakes  while  pro-
       gramming  in Tcl.  Scripts should use the Tcl exec or sys-
       tem commands to run Unix commands.

       This functionality is provided by Extended Tcl.
