       The  following  variables  are  set and/or used by the Tcl
       shell.

       argv0  Contains the name of the Tcl program  specified  on
              the command line or the name that the Tcl shell was
              invoked under if no program  was  specified.   argc
              Contains a count of the number of argv arguments (0
              if none).  argv A  list  containing  the  arguments
              passed  in  from  the command line, excluding argu-
              ments used by the Tcl shell.  The first element  is
              the first passed argument, not the program name.

       tcl_interactive
              Set  to 1 if Tcl shell is invoked interactively, or
              0 if the Tcl shell is directly executing a  script.
              Normally  checked by scripts so that they can func-
              tion as a standalone application  if  specified  on
              the  command  line, but merely load in and not exe-
              cute if loaded during an interactive invocation  of
              Tcl.

       auto_path
              Path  to  search  to locate Tcl autoload libraries.
              Used by the both the Tcl and TclX library autoload-
              ing facility.

       tclx_library
              Path  to the TclX runtime library.  If your running
              the TclX shell or an application based on it  (like
              wishx).  The TclX initialization file normally adds
              this to the auto_path.

       tkx_library
              Path to the TkX runtime library.  This is set  only
              if  your  application has called Tkx_Init.  The TkX
              initialization  file  normally  adds  this  to  the
              auto_path.

       tcl_prompt1
              Contains code to run to output the prompt used when
              interactively prompting for commands.

       tcl_prompt2
              Contains code to run to output the prompt used when
              interactively  prompting  for  continuation  of  an
              incomplete command.

       TCLXENV
              Array that contains information used internally  by
              various  Tcl  procedures  that are part of the TclX
              shell.  Don't change this  array  unless  you  know
              what your doing.
