!-*-Mode: Text; fill-prefix: "  ";-*-

18-20 August 1998

	Request via Quick service from Paul Lynam at LivJM
	(pdl@astro.livjm.ac.uk), to modify the way that ellpro does
	its galaxy profiling, `using a median rather than a mean'.

	This looked like a trivial task, just requiring elp1_stats to
	return a median in the slot where it had previously returned a
	mean.  This won't work, however, as ellpro seems to use the
	mean for other purposes as well, so that it looks as if simply
	replacing this with a median would have knock-on effects.

	What I've done, therefore, is to modify the call to elp1_stats
	to include a RTYPE and STAT parameters.  RTYPE may be one of
	ELP__RESnn defined in elp_par, and this selects which
	residual is to be calculated; STAT is a statistic which the
	program can usefully (?)  report.  The choice can be
	elp__resmn for the original one, with STAT holding the mean;
	elp__resmd for a residual which is the sum of the absolute
	differences between the values on the ellipse and the median,
	with STAT returning the median; and elp__resls which is like
	elp__resmn, except that the residual is a simple
	squared-difference, without the (pointless) statistical
	corrections and biasing of the original.

	I've incorporated some of the hacks Clive Davenhall made to
	the source, to modify the output.  It should, therefore, be
	consistent with the version he released to Paul before, called
	ELLPRO(M).



	I'm still confused about how the makefile works.  Martin Bly
	made some changes to it when he was building ESP for release,
	particularly to the way that platform-specific files are
	managed.  I haven't persuaded myself that this is completely
	correct, as I needed some fiddling (dragging the
	d1mach.f_littleieee, etc down from Glasgow, because they
	hadn't been included in the `mk export_source') to build the
	thing on star.rl.ac.uk.

mid-1999

	Incorporated the sources into CVS, including the changes
	described above.  This file should now be for general
	discursive notes rather than any logging details.


Oct-Nov 1999

	ESP has been modified to be aware of the World Coordinate 
        System (WCS) components of NDFs.

	The COSYS parameter has been removed from all ESP applications, 
	so that all user input and output is now in the Current 
	co-ordinate system of the NDF.  The Current co-ordinate system 
	is a characteristic of the WCS component of the NDF.  
	Thus, instead of setting COSYS to use either 'Data' or 'World'
	co-ordinate sytems, you should now set the Current frame of the 
	NDF's WCS component (e.g. using KAPPA's WCSFRAME apllication) 
	to the desired co-ordinate system before running the ESP 
	application.

	Output to data files is however in Base (WCS GRID frame) 
	co-ordinates, which are pixel co-ordinates guaranteed to start 
	at (1,1).

	For NDFs which have a WCS component with a SKY frame in it, the
	PSIZE parameter (pixel size in arc seconds) is now determined 
	automatically rather than being solicited from the user.
	This can be overridded by specifying it on the command line.

	ESP applications which generate output NDFs from input NDFs now
	propagate the WCS component where appropriate.



