NAME
       tclsh - Simple shell containing Tcl interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       tclsh ?fileName arg arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       Tclsh  is a shell-like application that reads Tcl commands
       from its standard input or from a file and evaluates them.
       If  invoked  with no arguments then it runs interactively,
       reading Tcl commands from standard input and printing com-
       mand  results  and  error messages to standard output.  It
       runs until the exit command is invoked or until it reaches
       end-of-file on its standard input.  If there exists a file
       .tclshrc in the home directory of the user,  tclsh  evalu-
       ates  the  file  as  a  Tcl script just before reading the
       first command from standard input.


SCRIPT FILES
       If tclsh is invoked with arguments then the first argument
       is  the name of a script file and any additional arguments
       are made available to the script as variables (see below).
       Instead of reading commands from standard input tclsh will
       read Tcl commands from the named file;   tclsh  will  exit
       when  it  reaches  the end of the file.  There is no auto-
       matic evaluation of .tclshrc in this case, but the  script
       file can always source it if desired.

       If you create a Tcl script in a file whose first line is
              #!/usr/local/bin/tclsh
       then  you  can  invoke  the script file directly from your
       shell if you mark the file as  executable.   This  assumes
       that  tclsh  has been installed in the default location in
       /usr/local/bin;  if it's  installed  somewhere  else  then
       you'll  have to modify the above line to match.  Many UNIX
       systems do not allow the #! line to exceed about 30  char-
       acters in length, so be sure that the tclsh executable can
       be accessed with a short file name.

       An even better approach is to start your script files with
       the following three lines:
              #!/bin/sh
              # the next line restarts using tclsh \
              exec tclsh "$0" "$@"
       This  approach  has  three advantages over the approach in
       the previous paragraph.  First, the location of the  tclsh
       binary  doesn't have to be hard-wired into the script:  it
       can be anywhere in your shell  search  path.   Second,  it
       gets around the 30-character file name limit in the previ-
       ous approach.  Third, this  approach  will  work  even  if
       tclsh  is itself a shell script (this is done on some sys-
       tems  in  order  to  handle  multiple   architectures   or
       operating  systems:   the tclsh script selects one of sev-
       eral binaries to run).  The three lines cause both sh  and
       tclsh to process the script, but the exec is only executed
       by sh.  sh processes the script first;  it treats the sec-
       ond  line  as  a comment and executes the third line.  The
       exec statement cause the  shell  to  stop  processing  and
       instead  to start up tclsh to reprocess the entire script.
       When tclsh starts up, it treats all three  lines  as  com-
       ments,  since  the backslash at the end of the second line
       causes the third line to be treated as part of the comment
       on the second line.


VARIABLES
       Tclsh sets the following Tcl variables:

       argc           Contains a count of the number of arg argu-
                      ments (0 if none), not including  the  name
                      of the script file.

       argv           Contains  a Tcl list whose elements are the
                      arg arguments, in order, or an empty string
                      if there are no arg arguments.

       argv0          Contains  fileName  if  it  was  specified.
                      Otherwise, contains the name by which tclsh
                      was invoked.

       tcl_interactive
                      Contains  1  if  tclsh  is running interac-
                      tively (no fileName was specified and stan-
                      dard  input  is  a terminal-like device), 0
                      otherwise.


PROMPTS
       When tclsh is invoked interactively  it  normally  prompts
       for  each  command with ``% ''.  You can change the prompt
       by setting the variables tcl_prompt1 and tcl_prompt2.   If
       variable  tcl_prompt1 exists then it must consist of a Tcl
       script to output a prompt;  instead of outputting a prompt
       tclsh  will evaluate the script in tcl_prompt1.  The vari-
       able tcl_prompt2 is used in a similar way when  a  newline
       is  typed  but  the current command isn't yet complete; if
       tcl_prompt2 isn't set then no prompt is output for  incom-
       plete commands.


KEYWORDS
       argument, interpreter, prompt, script file, shell
