NAME
       bitmap - Images that display two colors

SYNOPSIS
       image create bitmap ?name? ?options?


DESCRIPTION
       A  bitmap  is  an image whose pixels can display either of
       two colors or be transparent.  A bitmap image  is  defined
       by  four  things:  a background color, a foreground color,
       and two bitmaps, called the source and the mask.  Each  of
       the  bitmaps  specifies 0/1 values for a rectangular array
       of pixels, and the two bitmaps must have the  same  dimen-
       sions.   For pixels where the mask is zero, the image dis-
       plays nothing, producing a transparent effect.  For  other
       pixels,  the  image  displays  the foreground color if the
       source data is one and the background color if the  source
       data is zero.


CREATING BITMAPS
       Like  all images, bitmaps are created using the image cre-
       ate command.  Bitmaps support the following options:

       -background color
              Specifies a background color for the image  in  any
              of  the  standard  ways  accepted  by  Tk.  If this
              option is set to an empty  string  then  the  back-
              ground  pixels will be transparent.  This effect is
              achieved by using the source  bitmap  as  the  mask
              bitmap,   ignoring   any   -maskdata  or  -maskfile
              options.

       -data string
              Specifies the contents of the source  bitmap  as  a
              string.   The string must adhere to X11 bitmap for-
              mat (e.g., as generated by the bitmap program).  If
              both the -data and -file options are specified, the
              -data option takes precedence.

       -file name
              name gives the name of a file whose contents define
              the  source  bitmap.   The  file must adhere to X11
              bitmap format (e.g., as  generated  by  the  bitmap
              program).

       -foreground color
              Specifies  a  foreground color for the image in any
              of the standard ways accepted by Tk.

       -maskdata string
              Specifies the contents of the  mask  as  a  string.
              The  string must adhere to X11 bitmap format (e.g.,
              as generated by the bitmap program).  If  both  the
              -maskdata  and -maskfile options are specified, the
              -maskdata option takes precedence.

       -maskfile name
              name gives the name of a file whose contents define
              the  mask.  The file must adhere to X11 bitmap for-
              mat (e.g., as generated by the bitmap program).


IMAGE COMMAND
       When a bitmap image is created, Tk also creates a new com-
       mand  whose  name  is the same as the image.  This command
       may be used to invoke various operations on the image.  It
       has the following general form:
              imageName option ?arg arg ...?
       Option  and  the  args determine the exact behavior of the
       command.  The following commands are possible  for  bitmap
       images:

       imageName cget option
              Returns  the  current  value  of  the configuration
              option given by option.  Option may have any of the
              values accepted by the image create bitmap command.

       imageName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query or modify the configuration options  for  the
              image.   If  no option is specified, returns a list
              describing all of the available options for  image-
              Name  (see  Tk_ConfigureInfo for information on the
              format of this list).  If option is specified  with
              no  value, then the command returns a list describ-
              ing the one named option (this list will be identi-
              cal  to  the  corresponding  sublist  of  the value
              returned if no option is  specified).   If  one  or
              more  option-value  pairs  are  specified, then the
              command modifies the given option(s)  to  have  the
              given  value(s);   in this case the command returns
              an empty string.  Option may have any of the values
              accepted by the image create bitmap command.


KEYWORDS
       bitmap, image
