NAME
       image - Create and manipulate images

SYNOPSIS
       image option ?arg arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  image  command  is  used to create, delete, and query
       images.  It can take several different forms, depending on
       the option argument.  The legal forms are:

       image create type ?name? ?option value ...?
              Creates  a  new  image  and returns its name.  type
              specifies the type of the image, which must be  one
              of  the  types  currently  defined  (e.g., bitmap).
              name specifies the name for the image;   if  it  is
              omitted  then  Tk  picks a name of the form imagex,
              where x is an integer.  There may be any number  of
              option-value  pairs,  which  provide  configuration
              options for  the  new  image.   The  legal  set  of
              options  is defined separately for each image type;
              see below for details on the options  for  built-in
              image  types.   If  an  image already exists by the
              given name then it is replaced with the  new  image
              and any instances of that image will redisplay with
              the new contents.

       image delete ?name name ...?
              Deletes each of the named  images  and  returns  an
              empty string.  If there are instances of the images
              displayed in widgets, the images won't actually  be
              deleted  until  all  of the instances are released.
              However, the association between the instances  and
              the   image  manager  will  be  dropped.   Existing
              instances will retain their sizes but redisplay  as
              empty  areas.  If a deleted image is recreated with
              another  call  to  image   create,   the   existing
              instances will use the new image.

       image height name
              Returns a decimal string giving the height of image
              name in pixels.

       image names
              Returns a list containing the names of all existing
              images.

       image type name
              Returns  the  type  of image name (the value of the
              type argument to image create when  the  image  was
              created).
       image types
              Returns  a list whose elements are all of the valid
              image types (i.e., all of the values  that  may  be
              supplied for the type argument to image create).

       image width name
              Returns  a decimal string giving the width of image
              name in pixels.


BUILT-IN IMAGE TYPES
       The following image types are defined by Tk so  they  will
       be  available  in any Tk application.  Individual applica-
       tions or extensions may define additional types.

       bitmap Each pixel  in  the  image  displays  a  foreground
              color,  a  background  color,  or nothing.  See the
              bitmap manual entry for more information.

       photo  Displays a  variety  of  full-color  images,  using
              dithering  to  approximate  colors on displays with
              limited color capabilities.  See the  photo  manual
              entry for more information.


KEYWORDS
       height, image, types of images, width
