       ctype ?-failindex var? class string
              ctype  determines  whether all characters in string
              are of the specified class.  It returns 1  if  they
              are  all of class, and 0 if they are not, or if the
              string  is  empty.   This  command  also   provides
              another  method  (besides  format and scan) of con-
              verting between an ASCII character and its  numeric
              value.  The following ctype commands are available:

              ctype ?-failindex var? alnum string
                     Tests that all characters are alphabetic  or
                     numeric characters as defined by the charac-
                     ter set.

              ctype ?-failindex var? alpha string
                     Tests that  all  characters  are  alphabetic
                     characters  as defined by the character set.

              ctype ?-failindex var? ascii string
                     Tests that all characters are an ASCII char-
                     acter   (a  non-negative  number  less  than
                     0200).

              ctype char number
                     Converts the numeric value,  string,  to  an
                     ASCII  character.   Number  must  be  in the
                     range 0 through 255.

              ctype ?-failindex var? cntrl string
                     Tests  that  all  characters  are  ``control
                     characters''  as  defined  by  the character
                     set.

              ctype ?-failindex var? digit string
                     Tests that all characters are valid  decimal
                     digits, i.e. 0 through 9.

              ctype ?-failindex var? graph string
                     Tests  that  all  characters  within are any
                     character for which  ctype  print  is  true,
                     except for space characters.

              ctype ?-failindex var? lower string
                     Tests that all characters are lowercase let-
                     ters as defined by the character set.

              ctype ord character
                     Convert a character into its decimal numeric
                     value.  The first character of the string is
                     converted.

              ctype ?-failindex var? space string
                     Tests  that  all  characters  are  either  a
                     space,   horizontal-tab,   carriage  return,
                     newline, vertical-tab, or form-feed.

              ctype ?-failindex var? print string
                     Tests that all characters are a space or any
                     character  for  which  ctype  alnum or ctype
                     punct is true or  other  ``printing  charac-
                     ter'' as defined by the character set.

              ctype ?-failindex var? punct string
                     Tests that all characters are made up of any
                     of the characters other than  the  ones  for
                     which alnum, cntrl, or space is true.

              ctype ?-failindex var? upper string
                     Tests that all characters are uppercase let-
                     ters as defined by the character set.

              ctype ?-failindex var? xdigit string
                     Tests that all characters are valid hexadec-
                     imal  digits, that is 0 through 9, a through
                     f or A through F.

              If -failindex is specified,  then  the  index  into
              string  of  the  first character that did not match
              the class is returned in var.

              This command is provided by Extended Tcl.
