NAME
       string - Manipulate strings

SYNOPSIS
       string option arg ?arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       Performs  one  of  several string operations, depending on
       option.  The legal options (which may be abbreviated) are:

       string compare string1 string2
              Perform   a  character-by-character  comparison  of
              strings string1 and string2 in the same way as  the
              C  strcmp procedure.  Return -1, 0, or 1, depending
              on whether string1 is lexicographically less  than,
              equal to, or greater than string2.

       string first string1 string2
              Search  string2  for  a sequence of characters that
              exactly match the characters in string1.  If found,
              return  the  index  of  the  first character in the
              first such match within  string2.   If  not  found,
              return -1.

       string index string charIndex
              Returns  the  charIndex'th  character of the string
              argument.  A charIndex  of  0  corresponds  to  the
              first  character  of  the  string.  If charIndex is
              less than 0 or greater than or equal to the  length
              of the string then an empty string is returned.

       string last string1 string2
              Search  string2  for  a sequence of characters that
              exactly match the characters in string1.  If found,
              return the index of the first character in the last
              such match within string2.  If there is  no  match,
              then return -1.

       string length string
              Returns a decimal string giving the number of char-
              acters in string.

       string match pattern string
              See if pattern matches string; return 1 if it does,
              0  if  it  doesn't.   Matching is done in a fashion
              similar to that used by the C-shell.  For  the  two
              strings  to match, their contents must be identical
              except that the  following  special  sequences  may
              appear in pattern:

              *         Matches  any  sequence  of  characters in
                        string, including a null string.
              ?         Matches any single character in string.

              [chars]   Matches any character in the set given by
                        chars.   If  a  sequence  of the form x-y
                        appears  in  chars,  then  any  character
                        between x and y, inclusive, will match.

              \x        Matches  the  single  character  x.  This
                        provides a way of  avoiding  the  special
                        interpretation of the characters *?[]\ in
                        pattern.

       string range string first last
              Returns a  range  of  consecutive  characters  from
              string,  starting with the character whose index is
              first and ending with the character whose index  is
              last.  An  index of 0 refers to the first character
              of the string.  An index of end (or  any  abbrevia-
              tion  of  it)  refers  to the last character of the
              string.  If first is less  than  zero  then  it  is
              treated  as if it were zero, and if last is greater
              than or equal to the length of the string  then  it
              is  treated as if it were end.  If first is greater
              than last then an empty string is returned.

       string tolower string
              Returns a value equal to  string  except  that  all
              upper  case  letters  have  been converted to lower
              case.

       string toupper string
              Returns a value equal to  string  except  that  all
              lower  case  letters  have  been converted to upper
              case.

       string trim string ?chars?
              Returns a value equal to  string  except  that  any
              leading  or  trailing characters from the set given
              by chars are removed.  If chars  is  not  specified
              then  white  space  is  removed (spaces, tabs, new-
              lines, and carriage returns).

       string trimleft string ?chars?
              Returns a value equal to  string  except  that  any
              leading  characters from the set given by chars are
              removed.  If chars  is  not  specified  then  white
              space  is removed (spaces, tabs, newlines, and car-
              riage returns).

       string trimright string ?chars?
              Returns a value equal to  string  except  that  any
              trailing characters from the set given by chars are
              removed.  If chars  is  not  specified  then  white
              space  is  removed  (spaces,  tabs,  newlines,  and
              carriage returns).

       string wordend string index
              Returns the index of the character just  after  the
              last  one in the word containing character index of
              string.  A word is considered to be any  contiguous
              range  of alphanumeric or underscore characters, or
              any single character other than these.

       string wordstart string index
              Returns the index of the  first  character  in  the
              word  containing character index of string.  A word
              is  considered  to  be  any  contiguous  range   of
              alphanumeric  or underscore characters, or any sin-
              gle character other than these.


KEYWORDS
       case conversion, compare, index, match,  pattern,  string,
       word
