These are the standard RAL GKS files with three exceptions:

gkcell.f has a bona fide bug fix

gkesc.f returns an error code 180 for escapes other than -1 and -2

gkvers.f disables printing on the GKS version to stdout on initialisation.
         This is simply commented out. We could enable this via a preprocessor
         directive if it needs to be resurrected.

gprec.f  Fix include of check.inc to use ../include

gesc.f   Add escape -3

It is the combined files from both the original 'sources' (the 
gk* files) directory and the 'fortran' directory.

All files compile to libgks_base.la for later inclusion into the
normal libgks library by the parent directory.

Note that in the original RAL GKS distribution optimization for gkclip.f
was disabled on sun3 and sun4 platforms.

Files also added from the machine specific system directories:

 gkan1.f - was not machine specific in any meaningful sense
 gkaton.f - "   "

 gkdate.f - mainly Uses IDATE(IARRAY)
        + Some use 1900 offset
        + disabled on RS6000
        + MIPS uses IDATE(MONTH,DAY,YEAR)
        + Cray uses DATE() function which returns different format
          to g77 DATE() builtin
  GKS does not want the 4 digit year!
  Now runs with autoconf

 gkdfop.f - Add READONLY check to open. Use .fpp

 gkfobo.f - no system specific interface

 gkfoco.f - Some versions use GKBUG, others just set the error
            Use the GKBUG version

 gkiobi.fpp
 gkiobo.fpp
 gkioco.fpp
 gkioci.fpp  - Check for FPUTC/FGETC intrinsics
               Also check for presence of FLUSH
 
 gkiocl.f    - Most systems identical (give or take a tweak
               that was not really required and only worked for Suns).
               Special code for cray and indigo currently
               ignored. [which were themselves identical]

 gkiofi.f    - no system specific code

 gkiofo.fpp  - Need to switch on LSHIFT vs SHIFTL vs ISHFT
                                 RSHIFT vs SHIFTR vs ISHFT
                                 AND vs IAND and OR vs IOR
               Include RS6000 tweak

 gkioop.     - Very different on different platforms.
               Use most current (solaris, alpha, linux) version as root
	       Older versions do not use GKDFOP routine
               Solaris version seems to be the same as linux and
               alpha versions except that Solaris uses UNIT=(A+B) syntax
               Note that CSSFN is disabled on Linux.
	       Presumably because SCRATCH files do not need a filename.

  gklor.fpp
  gkland.fpp - simple configure tests. Could use these functions in
               gkiofo.fpp to simplify that ifdef forest
