
This is Pat Wallace's ASTROM package.  I've imported it into my CVS
repository in order to apply to it, on a branch, patches I've recently
developed.  This import does _not_ include astrom_source.tar or
sun5.htx_tar, both of which are generated files.  That means that it
doesn't build as it is, since the makefile insists on trying to
extract each of the source files from the tarball -- you can get around
this by adjusting the TAR_OUT environment variable in the mk script.

On the CVS head, I've modified the makefile so that it doesn't require
the source tarball to be present.  And I added a regression test
directory, t.

Norman Gray (norman@astro.gla.ac.uk)
2001-06-11



2003 May 2
----------

Assorted changes, ready for release.  See the news file.

Significantly, ASTROM is now partly configured through autoconf.  If
you check out a fresh copy from CVS, there is no longer a makefile.
To build a distribution straight from CVS, you need to give the
following commands (and you need a reasonably recent version of
autoconf or else you get an error like `autoconf: configure.in: No
such file or directory')

    make -f makefile.in configure
    ./configure
    latex sun5;bibtex sun5;latex sun5;bibtex sun5;latex sun5
    make export_source



2003 May 5
----------

More faffing around.  It's now essentially completely configured by
autoconf, and that seems successful.  HOWEVER, it's not distributed in
a form which allows you to do just `./configure;make' as is common.
This is because the Starlink makefile conventions are nuts! (yes, I
know I knew that already).  The obvious thing to do is simply to add
{makefile.in,configure,config} to the top-level tarball.  That nearly
works, but it turns into a real mess pretty promptly, because it has
to either completely ignore all of the functional defines in the
makefile (because all of the things that they refer to are put in the
_source.tar file), or else you have to completely redesign the
makefile.  It's all because of the ludicrous $(PKG_NAME)_source.tar
intermediate stage, which requires all sorts of pussyfooting around
(because this is both a generated file -- things are put into it
within the makefile -- and a source file -- things are taken out of it
after distribution).  A crude way of dealing with this is simply to
add to SOURCE_FILES both the config and t directories, as well as the
list of dependencies which are on $(PKG_NAME)_source.tar, and comment
out every target which involves _source.tar.  That _almost_ works, but
GNU make thereafter insists on trying to build `astrom' (a script)
from astrom.o, and thence from astrom.f, and I can't work out how to
tell it that's not what I want it to do.

There are therefore two things to do here: first is to rationalise the
makefile, and I hope I'll do that when I come to investigate that
whole business for all the classic applications (it might be
automatable, but probably won't be uncontentious); the second is to
lose the astrom script, and have astrom.f being invoked directly
(that's almost there -- all the script does is add `input=' and
`report=' to the first two arguments which don't have `=' signs in
them).

As a result of all this, the ASTROM regression tests _do_ work, just
not in the astrom test directory as distributed (because it's not
configured properly).

Sigh....


2003 May 7
----------

Star2HTML seems unable to find the sun5.bbl file (though it's there --
stupid program), so I've (temporarily?) edited it in to sun5.tex.
