Directory contents
------------------

This directory contains the following files:

README         : this file
atm.sdf        : example atmospheric sky image
candycanes.sdf : example astronomical sky image

heatunrobs.lis : example HEATRUN (flatfield) observing parameters
heatrunsim.lis : example HEATRUN (flatfield) simulation parameters
stareobs.lis   : example STARE observing parameters
staresim.lis   : example STARE simulation parameters
pongobs.lis    : example PONG observing parameters
pongsim.lis    : example PONG simulation parameters

obspar.lis     : observation parameters common to all observing modes
simpar.lis     : simulation parameters common to all observing modes
obspar_heatrun.lis : HEATRUN-specific observation parameters
simpar_heatrun.lis : HEATRUN-specific simulation parameters
obspar_stare.lis   : STARE-specific observation parameters
simpar_stare.lis   : STARE-specific simulation parameters
obspar_dream.lis   : DREAM-specific observation parameters
simpar_dream.lis   : DREAM-specific simulation parameters
obspar_pong.lis    : PONG-specific observation parameters
simpar_pong.lis    : PONG-specific simulation parameters

Example files for the simulator
-------------------------------

A number of example input files for the simulator are included in this
directory to enable simulations to be run. The first step before
running a sky simulation is to create flatfield (heatrun) files, using
heatrunobs.lis and heatrunsim.lis as input files. Then either a simple
PONG or STARE observation may be simulated using the pong(obs|sim).lis
or stare(obs|sim).lis input files.

The input parameters, as listed in the remaining files, are described
further below.

Input files for the simulator
-----------------------------

The simulator requires two sets of input parameters: one containing
`observation' parameters, the other containing `simulation'
parameters.  There is no requirement for them to have a particular
name. Some parameters are common to all observing modes, while others
are only meaningful to particular modes.

The two most important files are `obspar.lis' and `simpar.lis' which
contain all the parameters common to all observing modes. The other
files contain additional parameters which must be specified for the
various observing modes.

The simulator tries to choose sensible default values when parameters
are not defined, but they will probably not be what you want so if in
doubt, keep all of the parameters given in the template files.

To carry out a simulation of a given observing mode, include the
necessary mode-specific parameters into obspar.lis and simpar.lis
files. (For example, for a PONG simulation, add the parameters in
obspar_pong.lis to obspar.lis, and simpar_pong.lis to simpar.lis,
before running the simulator.)

A suitable atmospheric sky model is supplied, but alternatives may be
created with the SMURF task SKYNOISE, using obspar.lis and simpar.lis
for input parameters and adjusting the relevant variables.

