NAME
       package  - Facilities for package loading and version con-
       trol

SYNOPSIS
       package forget package
       package ifneeded package version ?script?
       package names
       package provide package ?version?
       package require ?-exact? package ?version?
       package unknown ?command?
       package vcompare version1 version2
       package versions package
       package vsatisfies version1 version2


DESCRIPTION
       This command keeps  a  simple  database  of  the  packages
       available  for  use  by the current interpreter and how to
       load them into the interpreter.  It supports multiple ver-
       sions of each package and arranges for the correct version
       of a package to be loaded based on what is needed  by  the
       application.   This  command also detects and reports ver-
       sion clashes.  Typically, only  the  package  require  and
       package   provide  commands  are  invoked  in  normal  Tcl
       scripts;  the other commands are used primarily by  system
       scripts that maintain the package database.

       The  behavior  of the package command is determined by its
       first argument.  The following forms are permitted:

       package forget package
              Removes all information  about  package  from  this
              interpreter, including information provided by both
              package ifneeded and package provide.

       package ifneeded package version ?script?
              This command typically appears only in system  con-
              figuration  scripts to set up the package database.
              It indicates that a particular version of a partic-
              ular  package  is available if needed, and that the
              package can be added to the interpreter by  execut-
              ing  script.  The script is saved in a database for
              use by subsequent package require commands;   typi-
              cally, script sets up auto-loading for the commands
              in  the  package  (or  calls  load  and/or   source
              directly), then invokes package provide to indicate
              that the package is present.  There may be informa-
              tion in the database for several different versions
              of a single package.  If the database already  con-
              tains  information for package and version, the new
              script replaces the existing one.   If  the  script
              argument is omitted, the current script for version
              version of package package is returned, or an empty
              string  if  no  package  ifneeded  command has been
              invoked for this package and version.

       package names
              Returns a list of the names of all packages in  the
              interpreter  for  which a version has been provided
              (via  package  provide)  or  for  which  a  package
              ifneeded  script  is  available.  The order of ele-
              ments in the list is arbitrary.

       package provide package ?version?
              This command is invoked to  indicate  that  version
              version  of  package  package is now present in the
              interpreter.  It is typically invoked once as  part
              of  an  ifneeded  script,  and again by the package
              itself when it is finally loaded.  An error  occurs
              if a different version of package has been provided
              by a previous package provide command.  If the ver-
              sion  argument is omitted, then the command returns
              the version number that is currently  provided,  or
              an  empty  string if no package provide command has
              been invoked for package in this interpreter.

       package require ?-exact? package ?version?
              This command is typically invoked by Tcl code  that
              wishes  to use a particular version of a particular
              package.  The arguments indicate which  package  is
              wanted,  and  the  command  ensures that a suitable
              version of the package is loaded  into  the  inter-
              preter.   If  the  command succeeds, it returns the
              version number that is loaded;  otherwise it gener-
              ates  an  error.  If both the -exact switch and the
              version argument are specified then only the  given
              version  is  acceptable.   If -exact is omitted but
              version is specified, then versions later than ver-
              sion  are  also acceptable as long as they have the
              same major version  number  as  version.   If  both
              -exact  and  version  are  omitted then any version
              whatsoever is acceptable.  If a version of  package
              has  already been provided (by invoking the package
              provide command), then its version number must sat-
              isfy  the  criteria given by -exact and version and
              the command returns  immediately.   Otherwise,  the
              command  searches  the database of information pro-
              vided by previous package ifneeded commands to  see
              if  an  acceptable version of the package is avail-
              able.  If so, the script for the highest acceptable
              version  number  is invoked; it must do whatever is
              necessary to load the  package,  including  calling
              package  provide  for  the package.  If the package
              ifneeded database does not  contain  an  acceptable
              version  of  the package and a package unknown com-
              mand has been specified for  the  interpreter  then
              that  command  is  invoked;  when it completes, Tcl
              checks again to see if the package is now  provided
              or  if  there  is a package ifneeded script for it.
              If all of these steps fail to provide an acceptable
              version of the package, then the command returns an
              error.

       package unknown ?command?
              This command supplies a ``last resort'' command  to
              invoke  during  package require if no suitable ver-
              sion of a package  can  be  found  in  the  package
              ifneeded database.  If the command argument is sup-
              plied, it contains the first  part  of  a  command;
              when  the  command  is  invoked  during  a  package
              require command, Tcl appends two  additional  argu-
              ments  giving the desired package name and version.
              For example, if command is foo bar  and  later  the
              command  package  require test 2.4 is invoked, then
              Tcl will execute the command foo bar  test  2.4  to
              load the package.  If no version number is supplied
              to the package require command,  then  the  version
              argument  for  the invoked command will be an empty
              string.  If the package unknown command is  invoked
              without  a command argument, then the current pack-
              age unknown script is returned, or an empty  string
              if  there  is  none.  If command is specified as an
              empty string,  then  the  current  package  unknown
              script is removed, if there is one.

       package vcompare version1 version2
              Compares  the two version numbers given by version1
              and version2.  Returns -1 if version1 is an earlier
              version  than  version2, 0 if they are equal, and 1
              if version1 is later than version2.

       package versions package
              Returns a list of all the version numbers of  pack-
              age  for  which  information  has  been provided by
              package ifneeded commands.

       package vsatisfies version1 version2
              Returns 1 if scripts written for version2 will work
              unchanged  with version1 (i.e. version1 is equal to
              or greater than version2 and  they  both  have  the
              same major version number), 0 otherwise.


VERSION NUMBERS
       Version  numbers  consist  of  one or more decimal numbers
       separated by dots, such as 2 or 1.162  or  3.1.13.1.   The
       first  number  is called the major version number.  Larger
       numbers correspond to later versions of  a  package,  with
       leftmost  numbers  having greater significance.  For exam-
       ple, version 2.1 is later than 1.3 and  version  3.4.6  is
       later  than  3.3.5.   Missing  fields  are  equivalent  to
       zeroes:  version 1.3 is the  same  as  version  1.3.0  and
       1.3.0.0,  so it is earlier than 1.3.1 or 1.3.0.2.  A later
       version number is assumed to be upwards compatible with an
       earlier  version  number as long as both versions have the
       same major version number.  For example, Tcl scripts writ-
       ten  for  version  2.3  of a package should work unchanged
       under versions 2.3.2, 2.4,  and  2.5.1.   Changes  in  the
       major version number signify incompatible changes: if code
       is written to use version 2.1 of  a  package,  it  is  not
       guaranteed to work unmodified with either version 1.7.3 or
       version 3.1.


PACKAGE INDICES
       The recommended way to use packages in Tcl  is  to  invoke
       package  require  and package provide commands in scripts,
       and use the procedure pkg_mkIndex to create package  index
       files.   Once  you've  done  this, packages will be loaded
       automatically in response  to  package  require  commands.
       See the documentation for pkg_mkIndex for details.


KEYWORDS
       package, version
