NAME
       winfo - Return window-related information

SYNOPSIS
       winfo option ?arg arg ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  winfo  command  is used to retrieve information about
       windows managed by Tk.  It can take any  of  a  number  of
       different  forms,  depending  on the option argument.  The
       legal forms are:

       winfo atom ?-displayof window? name
              Returns a decimal string giving the integer identi-
              fier  for  the atom whose name is name.  If no atom
              exists with the name name then a new  one  is  cre-
              ated.   If  the -displayof option is given then the
              atom is looked up on the display of window;  other-
              wise it is looked up on the display of the applica-
              tion's main window.

       winfo atomname ?-displayof window? id
              Returns the textual name for the atom whose integer
              identifier  is  id.   If  the  -displayof option is
              given then the identifier is looked up on the  dis-
              play  of  window;  otherwise it is looked up on the
              display of the  application's  main  window.   This
              command  is  the inverse of the winfo atom command.
              It generates an error if no such atom exists.

       winfo cells window
              Returns a decimal string giving the number of cells
              in the color map for window.

       winfo children window
              Returns a list containing the path names of all the
              children of window.  The list is in stacking order,
              with  the  lowest  window first.  Top-level windows
              are returned as children of their logical  parents.

       winfo class window
              Returns the class name for window.

       winfo colormapfull window
              Returns 1 if the colormap for window is known to be
              full, 0 otherwise.  The colormap for  a  window  is
              ``known''  to  be full if the last attempt to allo-
              cate a new color on that  window  failed  and  this
              application hasn't freed any colors in the colormap
              since the failed allocation.

       winfo containing ?-displayof window? rootX rootY
              Returns the path name for the window containing the
              point  given  by  rootX and rootY.  RootX and rootY
              are specified  in  screen  units  (i.e.   any  form
              acceptable  to Tk_GetPixels) in the coordinate sys-
              tem of the root window (if  a  virtual-root  window
              manager is in use then the coordinate system of the
              virtual root window is used).   If  the  -displayof
              option  is  given then the coordinates refer to the
              screen containing window;  otherwise they refer  to
              the screen of the application's main window.  If no
              window in this application contains the point  then
              an empty string is returned.  In selecting the con-
              taining window, children are given higher  priority
              than  parents and among siblings the highest one in
              the stacking order is chosen.

       winfo depth window
              Returns a decimal string giving the depth of window
              (number of bits per pixel).

       winfo exists window
              Returns  1 if there exists a window named window, 0
              if no such window exists.

       winfo fpixels window number
              Returns a floating-point value giving the number of
              pixels  in  window  corresponding  to  the distance
              given by number.  Number may be specified in any of
              the  forms  acceptable  to  Tk_GetScreenMM, such as
              ``2.0c'' or ``1i''.  The return value may be  frac-
              tional;  for an integer value, use winfo pixels.

       winfo geometry window
              Returns  the  geometry  for  window,  in  the  form
              widthxheight+x+y.  All dimensions are in pixels.

       winfo height window
              Returns a decimal string giving window's height  in
              pixels.   When a window is first created its height
              will be 1 pixel;  the  height  will  eventually  be
              changed  by  a geometry manager to fulfill the win-
              dow's needs.  If you need the true  height  immedi-
              ately  after  creating  a  widget, invoke update to
              force the geometry manager to arrange  it,  or  use
              winfo  reqheight  to  get  the  window's  requested
              height instead of its actual height.

       winfo id window
              Returns a hexadecimal  string  giving  a  low-level
              platform-specific  identifier  for window.  On Unix
              platforms, this is the X window identifier.   Under
              Windows,  this  is the Windows HWND.  On the Macin-
              tosh the value has no meaning outside Tk.
       winfo interps ?-displayof window?
              Returns a list whose members are the names  of  all
              Tcl  interpreters  (e.g. all Tk-based applications)
              currently registered for a particular display.   If
              the  -displayof  option  is  given  then the return
              value refers to the display of  window;   otherwise
              it  refers to the display of the application's main
              window.

       winfo ismapped window
              Returns 1 if window is currently mapped,  0  other-
              wise.

       winfo manager window
              Returns  the name of the geometry manager currently
              responsible for window, or an empty string if  win-
              dow  isn't  managed  by  any geometry manager.  The
              name is usually the name of the Tcl command for the
              geometry  manager,  such  as pack or place.  If the
              geometry manager is a widget, such as  canvases  or
              text,  the name is the widget's class command, such
              as canvas.

       winfo name window
              Returns window's name (i.e.  its  name  within  its
              parent,  as  opposed  to  its full path name).  The
              command winfo name . will return the  name  of  the
              application.

       winfo parent window
              Returns  the  path  name  of window's parent, or an
              empty string if window is the main  window  of  the
              application.

       winfo pathname ?-displayof window? id
              Returns the path name of the window whose X identi-
              fier is id.  Id must be a decimal, hexadecimal,  or
              octal  integer  and  must correspond to a window in
              the invoking application.  If the -displayof option
              is  given  then  the identifier is looked up on the
              display of window;  otherwise it is  looked  up  on
              the display of the application's main window.

       winfo pixels window number
              Returns  the number of pixels in window correspond-
              ing to the distance given by number.  Number may be
              specified in any of the forms acceptable to Tk_Get-
              Pixels, such as ``2.0c'' or ``1i''.  The result  is
              rounded  to the nearest integer value;  for a frac-
              tional result, use winfo fpixels.

       winfo pointerx window
              If the mouse pointer is on the same screen as  win-
              dow,  returns  the pointer's x coordinate, measured
              in pixels in the screen's root window.  If  a  vir-
              tual root window is in use on the screen, the posi-
              tion is measured in the virtual root.  If the mouse
              pointer  isn't on the same screen as window then -1
              is returned.

       winfo pointerxy window
              If the mouse pointer is on the same screen as  win-
              dow,  returns  a  list with two elements, which are
              the pointer's x and y coordinates measured in  pix-
              els in the screen's root window.  If a virtual root
              window is in use on the  screen,  the  position  is
              computed in the virtual root.  If the mouse pointer
              isn't on the same screen as window then both of the
              returned coordinates are -1.

       winfo pointery window
              If  the mouse pointer is on the same screen as win-
              dow, returns the pointer's y  coordinate,  measured
              in  pixels  in the screen's root window.  If a vir-
              tual root window is in use on the screen, the posi-
              tion is computed in the virtual root.  If the mouse
              pointer isn't on the same screen as window then  -1
              is returned.

       winfo reqheight window
              Returns  a decimal string giving window's requested
              height, in pixels.  This is the value used by  win-
              dow's geometry manager to compute its geometry.

       winfo reqwidth window
              Returns  a decimal string giving window's requested
              width, in pixels.  This is the value used  by  win-
              dow's geometry manager to compute its geometry.

       winfo rgb window color
              Returns  a  list  containing  three decimal values,
              which are the red, green, and blue intensities that
              correspond  to color in the window given by window.
              Color may be specified in any of the forms  accept-
              able for a color option.

       winfo rootx window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the x-coordinate,
              in the root window of the screen, of the upper-left
              corner  of  window's border (or window if it has no
              border).

       winfo rooty window
              Returns a decimal string giving  the  y-coordinate,
              in the root window of the screen, of the upper-left
              corner of window's border (or window if it  has  no
              border).
       winfo screen window
              Returns the name of the screen associated with win-
              dow, in the form displayName.screenIndex.

       winfo screencells window
              Returns a decimal string giving the number of cells
              in the default color map for window's screen.

       winfo screendepth window
              Returns  a  decimal  string giving the depth of the
              root window of window's screen (number of bits  per
              pixel).

       winfo screenheight window
              Returns  a decimal string giving the height of win-
              dow's screen, in pixels.

       winfo screenmmheight window
              Returns a decimal string giving the height of  win-
              dow's screen, in millimeters.

       winfo screenmmwidth window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the width of win-
              dow's screen, in millimeters.

       winfo screenvisual window
              Returns one of the following  strings  to  indicate
              the  default  visual  class  for  window's  screen:
              directcolor, grayscale,  pseudocolor,  staticcolor,
              staticgray, or truecolor.

       winfo screenwidth window
              Returns  a  decimal string giving the width of win-
              dow's screen, in pixels.

       winfo server window
              Returns a string containing information  about  the
              server  for  window's display.  The exact format of
              this string may vary  from  platform  to  platform.
              For  X servers the string has the form ``XmajorRmi-
              nor vendor vendorVersion'' where  major  and  minor
              are  the  version  and revision numbers provided by
              the server (e.g., X11R5), vendor is the name of the
              vendor  for  the  server,  and  vendorRelease is an
              integer release number provided by the server.

       winfo toplevel window
              Returns the path name of the top-level window  con-
              taining window.

       winfo viewable window
              Returns  1  if  window  and all of its ancestors up
              through the nearest  toplevel  window  are  mapped.
              Returns 0 if any of these windows are not mapped.
       winfo visual window
              Returns  one  of  the following strings to indicate
              the   visual   class   for   window:   directcolor,
              grayscale, pseudocolor, staticcolor, staticgray, or
              truecolor.

       winfo visualid window
              Returns the X identifier for the visual for window.

       winfo visualsavailable window ?includeids?
              Returns  a list whose elements describe the visuals
              available for window's screen.  Each  element  con-
              sists  of  a  visual  class  followed by an integer
              depth.  The class has the same form as returned  by
              winfo  visual.   The depth gives the number of bits
              per pixel in  the  visual.   In  addition,  if  the
              includeids  argument is provided, then the depth is
              followed by the X identifier for the visual.

       winfo vrootheight window
              Returns the height of the virtual root window asso-
              ciated  with  window  if  there  is one;  otherwise
              returns the height of window's screen.

       winfo vrootwidth window
              Returns the width of the virtual root window  asso-
              ciated  with  window  if  there  is one;  otherwise
              returns the width of window's screen.

       winfo vrootx window
              Returns the x-offset of  the  virtual  root  window
              associated with window, relative to the root window
              of its screen.  This is  normally  either  zero  or
              negative.   Returns  0  if there is no virtual root
              window for window.

       winfo vrooty window
              Returns the y-offset of  the  virtual  root  window
              associated with window, relative to the root window
              of its screen.  This is  normally  either  zero  or
              negative.   Returns  0  if there is no virtual root
              window for window.

       winfo width window
              Returns a decimal string giving window's  width  in
              pixels.   When  a window is first created its width
              will be 1 pixel;   the  width  will  eventually  be
              changed  by  a geometry manager to fulfill the win-
              dow's needs.  If you need the  true  width  immedi-
              ately  after  creating  a  widget, invoke update to
              force the geometry manager to arrange  it,  or  use
              winfo  reqwidth to get the window's requested width
              instead of its actual width.
       winfo x window
              Returns a decimal string giving  the  x-coordinate,
              in  window's  parent,  of  the upper-left corner of
              window's border (or window if it has no border).

       winfo y window
              Returns a decimal string giving  the  y-coordinate,
              in  window's  parent,  of  the upper-left corner of
              window's border (or window if it has no border).


KEYWORDS
       atom,  children,  class,  geometry,  height,   identifier,
       information,  interpreters,  mapped,  parent,  path  name,
       screen, virtual root, width, window
