Directory contents
------------------

This directory contains the following files:

obspar.lis     : observation parameters common to all observing modes
simpar.lis     : simulation parameters common to all observing modes
heatrunobs.lis : HEATRUN (flatfield) observation parameters
heatrunsim.lis : HEATRUN (flatfield) simulation parameters
stareobs.lis   : STARE observation parameters
staresim.lis   : STARE simulation parameters
dreamobs.lis   : DREAM observation parameters
dreamsim.lis   : DREAM simulation parameters
pongobs.lis    : PONG observation parameters
pongsim.lis    : PONG simulation parameters
README         : this file
candycanes.sdf : Example astronomical sky image

Input files for the simulator
-----------------------------

The simulator requires two sets of input parameters: one containing
`observation' parameters, the other containing `simulation'
parameters.  There is no requirement for them to have a particular
name. Some parameters are common to all observing modes, while others
are only meaningful to particular modes.

The two most important files are `obspar.lis' and `simpar.lis' which
contain all the parameters common to all observing modes. The other
files contain additional parameters which must be specified for the
various observing modes.

The simulator tries to choose sensible default values when parameters
are not defined, but they will probably not be what you want so if in
doubt, keep all of the parameters given in the template files.

To carry out a simulation of a given observing mode, include the
necessary mode-specific parameters into obspar.lis and simpar.lis
files. (For example, for a PONG simulation, add the parameters in
pongobs.lis to obspar.lis before running the simulator.)

A suitable atmospheric sky model may be created with the SMURF task
SKYNOISE, using obspar.lis and simpar.lis for input parameters.

Note: the first step before running a sky simulation with SC2SIM is to
create flatfield (heatrun) files. Therefore the first time the
simulator is run should be to create those files with a HEATRUN
observing mode.
