NAME
       frame - Create and manipulate frame widgets

SYNOPSIS
       frame pathName ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       -borderwidth    -highlightbackground           -highlightthickness-takefocus
       -cursor         -highlightcolor                -relief

       See  the  options manual entry for details on the standard
       options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Command-Line Name:-background
       Database Name:  background
       Database Class: Background

              This option is the same as the standard  background
              option  except that its value may also be specified
              as an empty string.  In this case, the widget  will
              display no background or border, and no colors will
              be consumed from its colormap  for  its  background
              and border.

       Command-Line Name:-class
       Database Name:  class
       Database Class: Class

              Specifies  a class for the window.  This class will
              be used when querying the option database  for  the
              window's  other  options,  and it will also be used
              later for other purposes  such  as  bindings.   The
              class  option may not be changed with the configure
              widget command.

       Command-Line Name:-colormap
       Database Name:  colormap
       Database Class: Colormap

              Specifies a colormap to use for  the  window.   The
              value  may  be either new, in which case a new col-
              ormap is created for the window and  its  children,
              or the name of another window (which must be on the
              same screen and have the same visual as  pathName),
              in  which case the new window will use the colormap
              from the specified window.  If the colormap  option
              is not specified, the new window uses the same col-
              ormap as  its  parent.   This  option  may  not  be
              changed with the configure widget command.

       Command-Line Name:-container
       Database Name:  container
       Database Class: Container
              The  value  must  be  a boolean.  If true, it means
              that this window will be used  as  a  container  in
              which  some other application will be embedded (for
              example, a Tk toplevel can be  embedded  using  the
              -use  option).   The window will support the appro-
              priate window manager  protocols  for  things  like
              geometry  requests.  The window should not have any
              children of its  own  in  this  application.   This
              option may not be changed with the configure widget
              command.

       Command-Line Name:-height
       Database Name:  height
       Database Class: Height

              Specifies the desired height for the window in  any
              of  the  forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.  If this
              option is less than or equal to zero then the  win-
              dow will not request any size at all.

       Command-Line Name:-visual
       Database Name:  visual
       Database Class: Visual

              Specifies  visual information for the new window in
              any of the forms accepted by Tk_GetVisual.  If this
              option  is  not  specified, the new window will use
              the same visual as its parent.  The  visual  option
              may  not be modified with the configure widget com-
              mand.

       Command-Line Name:-width
       Database Name:  width
       Database Class: Width

              Specifies the desired width for the window  in  any
              of  the  forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.  If this
              option is less than or equal to zero then the  win-
              dow will not request any size at all.


DESCRIPTION
       The frame command creates a new window (given by the path-
       Name argument) and makes it into a  frame  widget.   Addi-
       tional  options,  described above, may be specified on the
       command line  or  in  the  option  database  to  configure
       aspects  of  the  frame  such  as its background color and
       relief.  The frame command returns the path  name  of  the
       new window.

       A frame is a simple widget.  Its primary purpose is to act
       as a spacer or container for complex window layouts.   The
       only  features  of a frame are its background color and an
       optional 3-D border to make the  frame  appear  raised  or
       sunken.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The  frame command creates a new Tcl command whose name is
       the same as the path name of  the  frame's  window.   This
       command  may  be  used to invoke various operations on the
       widget.  It has the following general form:
              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       PathName is the name of the command, which is the same  as
       the  frame widget's path name.  Option and the args deter-
       mine the exact behavior of  the  command.   The  following
       commands are possible for frame widgets:

       pathName cget option
              Returns  the  current  value  of  the configuration
              option given by option.  Option may have any of the
              values accepted by the frame command.

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query  or  modify  the configuration options of the
              widget.  If no option is specified, returns a  list
              describing  all  of the available options for path-
              Name (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information  on  the
              format  of this list).  If option is specified with
              no value, then the command returns a list  describ-
              ing the one named option (this list will be identi-
              cal to  the  corresponding  sublist  of  the  value
              returned  if  no  option  is specified).  If one or
              more option-value pairs  are  specified,  then  the
              command modifies the given widget option(s) to have
              the given  value(s);   in  this  case  the  command
              returns  an  empty  string.  Option may have any of
              the values accepted by the frame command.


BINDINGS
       When a new frame is created, it has no default event bind-
       ings: frames are not intended to be interactive.


KEYWORDS
       frame, widget
