NAME
       label - Create and manipulate label widgets

SYNOPSIS
       label pathName ?options?

STANDARD OPTIONS
       -anchor         -font          -image          -takefocus
       -background     -foreground    -justify        -text
       -bitmap         -highlightbackground           -padx-textvariable
       -borderwidth    -highlightcolor                -pady-underline
       -cursor         -highlightthickness            -relief-wraplength

       See  the  options manual entry for details on the standard
       options.

WIDGET-SPECIFIC OPTIONS
       Command-Line Name:-height
       Database Name:  height
       Database Class: Height

              Specifies a desired height for the  label.   If  an
              image  or  bitmap  is  being displayed in the label
              then the value is in screen units (i.e. any of  the
              forms  acceptable  to Tk_GetPixels); for text it is
              in lines of text.  If this option isn't  specified,
              the  label's  desired  height  is computed from the
              size of the image or bitmap or text being displayed
              in it.

       Command-Line Name:-width
       Database Name:  width
       Database Class: Width

              Specifies  a  desired  width  for the label.  If an
              image or bitmap is being  displayed  in  the  label
              then  the value is in screen units (i.e. any of the
              forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels); for text  it  is
              in characters.  If this option isn't specified, the
              label's desired width is computed from the size  of
              the  image or bitmap or text being displayed in it.


DESCRIPTION
       The label command creates a new window (given by the path-
       Name  argument)  and  makes it into a label widget.  Addi-
       tional options, described above, may be specified  on  the
       command  line  or  in  the  option  database  to configure
       aspects of the label such as its colors, font,  text,  and
       initial  relief.   The  label command returns its pathName
       argument.  At the time this command is invoked, there must
       not  exist  a window named pathName, but pathName's parent
       must exist.
       A label is a widget that displays a textual string, bitmap
       or  image.  If text is displayed, it must all be in a sin-
       gle font, but it can occupy multiple lines on  the  screen
       (if  it contains newlines or if wrapping occurs because of
       the wrapLength option)  and  one  of  the  characters  may
       optionally  be underlined using the underline option.  The
       label can be manipulated in a few  simple  ways,  such  as
       changing  its relief or text, using the commands described
       below.


WIDGET COMMAND
       The label command creates a new Tcl command whose name  is
       pathName.   This  command  may  be  used to invoke various
       operations on the widget.  It has  the  following  general
       form:
              pathName option ?arg arg ...?
       Option  and  the  args determine the exact behavior of the
       command.  The following commands are  possible  for  label
       widgets:

       pathName cget option
              Returns  the  current  value  of  the configuration
              option given by option.  Option may have any of the
              values accepted by the label command.

       pathName configure ?option? ?value option value ...?
              Query  or  modify  the configuration options of the
              widget.  If no option is specified, returns a  list
              describing  all  of the available options for path-
              Name (see Tk_ConfigureInfo for information  on  the
              format  of this list).  If option is specified with
              no value, then the command returns a list  describ-
              ing the one named option (this list will be identi-
              cal to  the  corresponding  sublist  of  the  value
              returned  if  no  option  is specified).  If one or
              more option-value pairs  are  specified,  then  the
              command modifies the given widget option(s) to have
              the given  value(s);   in  this  case  the  command
              returns  an  empty  string.  Option may have any of
              the values accepted by the label command.


BINDINGS
       When a new label is created, it has no default event bind-
       ings: labels are not intended to be interactive.


KEYWORDS
       label, widget
