NAME
       options - Standard options supported by widgets


DESCRIPTION
       This  manual  entry  describes  the  common  configuration
       options supported by widgets in  the  Tk  toolkit.   Every
       widget  does not necessarily support every option (see the
       manual entries for individual widgets for a  list  of  the
       standard  options supported by that widget), but if a wid-
       get does support an option with one of  the  names  listed
       below,  then  the  option has exactly the effect described
       below.

       In the descriptions below, ``Command-Line Name'' refers to
       the  switch  used  in  class commands and configure widget
       commands to set this value.  For example, if  an  option's
       command-line switch is -foreground and there exists a wid-
       get .a.b.c, then the command
              .a.b.c  configure  -foreground black
       may be used to specify the value black for the  option  in
       the  the  widget  .a.b.c.   Command-line  switches  may be
       abbreviated, as long as the abbreviation  is  unambiguous.
       ``Database  Name''  refers  to  the  option's  name in the
       option database (e.g.  in .Xdefaults  files).   ``Database
       Class''  refers  to the option's class value in the option
       database.

       Command-Line Name:-activebackground
       Database Name:  activeBackground
       Database Class: Foreground

              Specifies background  color  to  use  when  drawing
              active  elements.   An element (a widget or portion
              of a widget) is active if the mouse cursor is posi-
              tioned over the element and pressing a mouse button
              will cause some action to occur.  If  strict  Motif
              compliance   has  been  requested  by  setting  the
              tk_strictMotif variable, this option will  normally
              be  ignored;   the  normal background color will be
              used instead.  For some  elements  on  Windows  and
              Macintosh  systems,  the  active color will only be
              used while mouse button 1 is pressed over the  ele-
              ment.

       Command-Line Name:-activeborderwidth
       Database Name:  activeBorderWidth
       Database Class: BorderWidth

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating the width
              of the 3-D border  drawn  around  active  elements.
              See  above  for definition of active elements.  The
              value may have  any  of  the  forms  acceptable  to
              Tk_GetPixels.    This   option  is  typically  only
              available in widgets displaying more than one  ele-
              ment at a time (e.g. menus but not buttons).

       Command-Line Name:-activeforeground
       Database Name:  activeForeground
       Database Class: Background

              Specifies  foreground  color  to  use  when drawing
              active  elements.   See  above  for  definition  of
              active elements.

       Command-Line Name:-anchor
       Database Name:  anchor
       Database Class: Anchor

              Specifies  how  the  information  in a widget (e.g.
              text or a bitmap) is to be displayed in the widget.
              Must  be  one of the values n, ne, e, se, s, sw, w,
              nw, or center.  For example, nw means  display  the
              information such that its top-left corner is at the
              top-left corner of the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-background or -bg
       Database Name:  background
       Database Class: Background

              Specifies the normal background color to  use  when
              displaying the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-bitmap
       Database Name:  bitmap
       Database Class: Bitmap

              Specifies a bitmap to display in the widget, in any
              of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetBitmap.  The exact
              way  in  which  the  bitmap  is  displayed  may  be
              affected by other options such as  anchor  or  jus-
              tify.   Typically, if this option is specified then
              it overrides other options that specify  a  textual
              value  to  display in the widget; the bitmap option
              may be reset to an empty string to re-enable a text
              display.   In  widgets that support both bitmap and
              image options, image will usually override  bitmap.

       Command-Line Name:-borderwidth or -bd
       Database Name:  borderWidth
       Database Class: BorderWidth

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating the width
              of the 3-D border to draw around the outside of the
              widget  (if  such  a  border  is  being drawn;  the
              relief  option  typically  determines  this).   The
              value  may also be used when drawing 3-D effects in
              the interior of the widget.  The value may have any
              of the forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.

       Command-Line Name:-cursor
       Database Name:  cursor
       Database Class: Cursor

              Specifies  the mouse cursor to be used for the wid-
              get.  The value may have any of the  forms  accept-
              able to Tk_GetCursor.

       Command-Line Name:-disabledforeground
       Database Name:  disabledForeground
       Database Class: DisabledForeground

              Specifies  foreground  color  to use when drawing a
              disabled element.  If the option is specified as an
              empty  string  (which  is  typically  the  case  on
              monochrome displays), disabled elements  are  drawn
              with  the  normal  foreground  color  but  they are
              dimmed by drawing them with a  stippled  fill  pat-
              tern.

       Command-Line Name:-exportselection
       Database Name:  exportSelection
       Database Class: ExportSelection

              Specifies  whether or not a selection in the widget
              should also be the X selection.  The value may have
              any  of  the forms accepted by Tcl_GetBoolean, such
              as true, false, 0, 1, yes, or no.  If the selection
              is exported, then selecting in the widget deselects
              the current X selection, selecting outside the wid-
              get  deselects any widget selection, and the widget
              will respond to selection retrieval  requests  when
              it  has  a  selection.   The default is usually for
              widgets to export selections.

       Command-Line Name:-font
       Database Name:  font
       Database Class: Font

              Specifies the font to use when drawing text  inside
              the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-foreground or -fg
       Database Name:  foreground
       Database Class: Foreground

              Specifies  the  normal foreground color to use when
              displaying the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-highlightbackground
       Database Name:  highlightBackground
       Database Class: HighlightBackground
              Specifies the color to  display  in  the  traversal
              highlight  region when the widget does not have the
              input focus.

       Command-Line Name:-highlightcolor
       Database Name:  highlightColor
       Database Class: HighlightColor

              Specifies the color to use for the traversal  high-
              light  rectangle  that  is  drawn around the widget
              when it has the input focus.

       Command-Line Name:-highlightthickness
       Database Name:  highlightThickness
       Database Class: HighlightThickness

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating the width
              of  the highlight rectangle to draw around the out-
              side of the widget when it  has  the  input  focus.
              The  value  may have any of the forms acceptable to
              Tk_GetPixels.  If the value is zero, no focus high-
              light is drawn around the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-image
       Database Name:  image
       Database Class: Image

              Specifies  an image to display in the widget, which
              must have been created with the image  create  com-
              mand.   Typically, if the image option is specified
              then it overrides  other  options  that  specify  a
              bitmap  or  textual value to display in the widget;
              the image option may be reset to an empty string to
              re-enable a bitmap or text display.

       Command-Line Name:-insertbackground
       Database Name:  insertBackground
       Database Class: Foreground

              Specifies  the  color  to  use as background in the
              area covered by the insertion cursor.   This  color
              will normally override either the normal background
              for the widget (or the selection background if  the
              insertion cursor happens to fall in the selection).

       Command-Line Name:-insertborderwidth
       Database Name:  insertBorderWidth
       Database Class: BorderWidth

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating the width
              of the 3-D border to draw around the insertion cur-
              sor.  The value may have any of the  forms  accept-
              able to Tk_GetPixels.
       Command-Line Name:-insertofftime
       Database Name:  insertOffTime
       Database Class: OffTime

              Specifies  a  non-negative integer value indicating
              the number of  milliseconds  the  insertion  cursor
              should remain ``off'' in each blink cycle.  If this
              option is zero then the cursor doesn't  blink:   it
              is on all the time.

       Command-Line Name:-insertontime
       Database Name:  insertOnTime
       Database Class: OnTime

              Specifies  a  non-negative integer value indicating
              the number of  milliseconds  the  insertion  cursor
              should remain ``on'' in each blink cycle.

       Command-Line Name:-insertwidth
       Database Name:  insertWidth
       Database Class: InsertWidth

              Specifies  a   value  indicating the total width of
              the insertion cursor.  The value may  have  any  of
              the  forms acceptable to Tk_GetPixels.  If a border
              has been specified for the insertion cursor  (using
              the  insertBorderWidth  option), the border will be
              drawn inside the width specified by the insertWidth
              option.

       Command-Line Name:-jump
       Database Name:  jump
       Database Class: Jump

              For  widgets  with  a slider that can be dragged to
              adjust a value, such  as  scrollbars,  this  option
              determines   when   notifications  are  made  about
              changes in the value.  The option's value must be a
              boolean of the form accepted by Tcl_GetBoolean.  If
              the value is false, updates are  made  continuously
              as  the  slider  is dragged.  If the value is true,
              updates are  delayed  until  the  mouse  button  is
              released  to  end the drag;  at that point a single
              notification is made (the  value  ``jumps''  rather
              than changing smoothly).

       Command-Line Name:-justify
       Database Name:  justify
       Database Class: Justify

              When  there are multiple lines of text displayed in
              a widget, this option determines how the lines line
              up  with  each other.  Must be one of left, center,
              or right.  Left means that the  lines'  left  edges
              all  line  up, center means that the lines' centers
              are aligned, and right means that the lines'  right
              edges line up.

       Command-Line Name:-orient
       Database Name:  orient
       Database Class: Orient

              For widgets that can lay themselves out with either
              a  horizontal  or  vertical  orientation,  such  as
              scrollbars, this option specifies which orientation
              should be used.  Must be either horizontal or  ver-
              tical or an abbreviation of one of these.

       Command-Line Name:-padx
       Database Name:  padX
       Database Class: Pad

              Specifies  a non-negative value indicating how much
              extra space to request for the  widget  in  the  X-
              direction.   The  value  may  have any of the forms
              acceptable to  Tk_GetPixels.   When  computing  how
              large  a  window it needs, the widget will add this
              amount to the width  it  would  normally  need  (as
              determined  by the width of the things displayed in
              the widget);  if the geometry manager  can  satisfy
              this  request,  the  widget  will end up with extra
              internal space to the left and/or right of what  it
              displays inside.  Most widgets only use this option
              for padding text:  if they are displaying a  bitmap
              or image, then they usually ignore padding options.

       Command-Line Name:-pady
       Database Name:  padY
       Database Class: Pad

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating how  much
              extra  space  to  request  for the widget in the Y-
              direction.  The value may have  any  of  the  forms
              acceptable  to  Tk_GetPixels.   When  computing how
              large a window it needs, the widget will  add  this
              amount  to  the  height  it would normally need (as
              determined by the height of the things displayed in
              the  widget);   if the geometry manager can satisfy
              this request, the widget will  end  up  with  extra
              internal  space above and/or below what it displays
              inside.  Most widgets  only  use  this  option  for
              padding  text:   if they are displaying a bitmap or
              image, then they usually ignore padding options.

       Command-Line Name:-relief
       Database Name:  relief
       Database Class: Relief
              Specifies the 3-D effect desired  for  the  widget.
              Acceptable  values are raised, sunken, flat, ridge,
              solid, and groove.  The  value  indicates  how  the
              interior  of  the  widget should appear relative to
              its exterior;  for example, raised means the  inte-
              rior  of  the widget should appear to protrude from
              the screen, relative to the exterior of the widget.

       Command-Line Name:-repeatdelay
       Database Name:  repeatDelay
       Database Class: RepeatDelay

              Specifies  the  number  of milliseconds a button or
              key must be held down before  it  begins  to  auto-
              repeat.   Used,  for  example, on the up- and down-
              arrows in scrollbars.

       Command-Line Name:-repeatinterval
       Database Name:  repeatInterval
       Database Class: RepeatInterval

              Used in conjunction with repeatDelay:   once  auto-
              repeat begins, this option determines the number of
              milliseconds between auto-repeats.

       Command-Line Name:-selectbackground
       Database Name:  selectBackground
       Database Class: Foreground

              Specifies the background color to use when display-
              ing selected items.

       Command-Line Name:-selectborderwidth
       Database Name:  selectBorderWidth
       Database Class: BorderWidth

              Specifies a non-negative value indicating the width
              of the 3-D border to draw  around  selected  items.
              The  value  may have any of the forms acceptable to
              Tk_GetPixels.

       Command-Line Name:-selectforeground
       Database Name:  selectForeground
       Database Class: Background

              Specifies the foreground color to use when display-
              ing selected items.

       Command-Line Name:-setgrid
       Database Name:  setGrid
       Database Class: SetGrid

              Specifies  a  boolean value that determines whether
              this widget controls the resizing grid for its top-
              level  window.   This  option  is typically used in
              text widgets, where the information in  the  widget
              has a natural size (the size of a character) and it
              makes sense for the window's dimensions to be inte-
              gral  numbers of these units.  These natural window
              sizes form a grid.  If the setGrid option is set to
              true then the widget will communicate with the win-
              dow manager so that  when  the  user  interactively
              resizes the top-level window that contains the wid-
              get, the dimensions of the window will be displayed
              to  the user in grid units and the window size will
              be constrained to integral numbers of  grid  units.
              See  the section GRIDDED GEOMETRY MANAGEMENT in the
              wm manual entry for more details.

       Command-Line Name:-takefocus
       Database Name:  takeFocus
       Database Class: TakeFocus

              Determines whether the  window  accepts  the  focus
              during  keyboard  traversal  (e.g.,  Tab and Shift-
              Tab).  Before setting the focus to  a  window,  the
              traversal  scripts consult the value of the takeFo-
              cus option.  A value of 0  means  that  the  window
              should  be skipped entirely during keyboard traver-
              sal.  1 means that the window  should  receive  the
              input  focus  as long as it is viewable (it and all
              of its ancestors are mapped).  An empty  value  for
              the  option  means  that the traversal scripts make
              the decision about whether or not to focus  on  the
              window:   the current algorithm is to skip the win-
              dow if it is disabled, if it has no  key  bindings,
              or  if  it  is  not viewable.  If the value has any
              other form, then the  traversal  scripts  take  the
              value,  append the name of the window to it (with a
              separator space), and evaluate the resulting string
              as  a  Tcl script.  The script must return 0, 1, or
              an empty string:  a 0 or 1 value specifies  whether
              the  window  will  receive  the input focus, and an
              empty  string  results  in  the  default   decision
              described  above.  Note: this interpretation of the
              option is defined entirely by the Tcl scripts  that
              implement  traversal:   the  widget implementations
              ignore the option entirely, so you can  change  its
              meaning  if  you  redefine  the  keyboard traversal
              scripts.

       Command-Line Name:-text
       Database Name:  text
       Database Class: Text

              Specifies a string to be displayed inside the  wid-
              get.   The  way  in  which  the string is displayed
              depends  on  the  particular  widget  and  may   be
              determined by other options, such as anchor or jus-
              tify.

       Command-Line Name:-textvariable
       Database Name:  textVariable
       Database Class: Variable

              Specifies the name of a variable.  The value of the
              variable  is  a  text string to be displayed inside
              the widget;  if the variable value changes then the
              widget  will automatically update itself to reflect
              the new value.  The way in which the string is dis-
              played in the widget depends on the particular wid-
              get and may be determined by other options, such as
              anchor or justify.

       Command-Line Name:-troughcolor
       Database Name:  troughColor
       Database Class: Background

              Specifies  the  color  to  use  for the rectangular
              trough areas in  widgets  such  as  scrollbars  and
              scales.

       Command-Line Name:-underline
       Database Name:  underline
       Database Class: Underline

              Specifies  the  integer  index  of  a  character to
              underline in the widget.  This option  is  used  by
              the  default bindings to implement keyboard traver-
              sal for menu buttons and menu  entries.   0  corre-
              sponds to the first character of the text displayed
              in the widget, 1 to the next character, and so  on.

       Command-Line Name:-wraplength
       Database Name:  wrapLength
       Database Class: WrapLength

              For  widgets  that  can perform word-wrapping, this
              option specifies the maximum  line  length.   Lines
              that  would exceed this length are wrapped onto the
              next line, so that no line is longer than the spec-
              ified length.  The value may be specified in any of
              the standard forms for screen distances.   If  this
              value  is  less than or equal to 0 then no wrapping
              is done:  lines will break only at newline  charac-
              ters in the text.

       Command-Line Name:-xscrollcommand
       Database Name:  xScrollCommand
       Database Class: ScrollCommand

              Specifies   the   prefix  for  a  command  used  to
              communicate with horizontal scrollbars.   When  the
              view  in  the  widget's window changes (or whenever
              anything else occurs that could change the  display
              in  a scrollbar, such as a change in the total size
              of the widget's contents), the widget will generate
              a  Tcl  command by concatenating the scroll command
              and two numbers.  Each of the numbers is a fraction
              between  0 and 1, which indicates a position in the
              document.  0 indicates the beginning of  the  docu-
              ment,  1  indicates the end, .333 indicates a posi-
              tion one third the way through the document, and so
              on.   The first fraction indicates the first infor-
              mation in the document that is visible in the  win-
              dow, and the second fraction indicates the informa-
              tion just after the last portion that  is  visible.
              The  command  is then passed to the Tcl interpreter
              for execution.  Typically the xScrollCommand option
              consists  of  the  path  name of a scrollbar widget
              followed by  ``set'',  e.g.  ``.x.scrollbar  set'':
              this  will  cause the scrollbar to be updated when-
              ever the view  in  the  window  changes.   If  this
              option  is  not  specified, then no command will be
              executed.

       Command-Line Name:-yscrollcommand
       Database Name:  yScrollCommand
       Database Class: ScrollCommand

              Specifies the prefix for a command used to communi-
              cate  with  vertical  scrollbars.   This  option is
              treated in  the  same  way  as  the  xScrollCommand
              option, except that it is used for vertical scroll-
              bars and is provided by widgets that support verti-
              cal  scrolling.  See the description of xScrollCom-
              mand for details on how this option is used.


KEYWORDS
       class, name, standard option, switch
