This is version 1.00 of the perl GSD module
-------------------------------------------

The James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT), Mauna Kea, Hawaii uses 
an in-house format for storing spectral line and UKT14 continuum data.
This format is called the Global Section Data format (GSD).

This module gives read only access to JCMT data. All new continuum
data from SCUBA uses the NDF format; please use the NDF module for
accessing SCUBA data.

A perldl reader is also included (PDL::IO::GSD) - for version 1.11 of
perldl. The gsdprint and gsdformat commands are included to dump the
contents of a GSD file.

                Tim Jenness (t.jenness@jach.hawaii.edu)

Requirements
------------

Perl 5.001, this module has been tested on 5.002, 5.003  and 5.004
on Sparc Solaris 2.5. More recently it has been tested on perl 5.8.0
and RedHat 7.3.

The C GSD library is available separately. See
http://www.starlink.rl.ac.uk/cgi-store/storeform1?GSD
with documentation at 
http://www.starlink.rl.ac.uk/star/docs/sun229.htx/sun229.html


The library will only work on Alpha/OSF1, Sun Solaris and SunOS.
The FORTRAN binding has been removed from this distribution of the
C library.

The PDL module requires perldl v1.11 or newer

Installation
------------

Please edit the Makefile.PL to reflect the location of your math
libraries. By default the GSD library used is the one included
with the module. If you wish to use a different library please
change the entry in Makefile.PL

Then installation is simply:

  perl makefile.PL
  make
  make test
  make install

A manual page is included in the module. Information on using the C GSD
library itself is not included.


NB
 
It is also possible to link the array handling code separately. This may 
be necessary if you wish to use this code yourself or if you are trying
to compile a perl program which includes two modules that use the same
array handling code. (for example a perl program using the NDF module as
well as this GSD module)
 
To do this the following is necessary:
 
        % cd arrays
        % make
 
This will create libarrays.a. You must then uncomment the libarrays line
in Makefile.PL and comment out the '#include "arrays/arrays.c"' line in
NDF.xs.

Copyright
---------
 
This module is copyright (C) 1995-2000,2003 Tim Jenness and the UK Particle
Physics and Astronomy Research Council.  All rights reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The C library was written by Horst Meyerdierks and Remo Tilanus.

