NAME
       fconfigure - Set and get options on a channel

SYNOPSIS
       fconfigure channelId
       fconfigure channelId name
       fconfigure channelId name value ?name value ...?


DESCRIPTION
       The  fconfigure  command  sets  and  retrieves options for
       channels.  ChannelId identifies the channel for  which  to
       set or query an option.  If no name or value arguments are
       supplied, the command returns a list containing  alternat-
       ing  option  names and values for the channel.  If name is
       supplied but no value then the command returns the current
       value  of  the given option.  If one or more pairs of name
       and value are supplied, the command sets each of the named
       options  to  the  corresponding  value;  in  this case the
       return value is an empty string.

       The options described below are supported  for  all  chan-
       nels.  In addition, each channel type may add options that
       only it supports. See the manual  entry  for  the  command
       that  creates  each  type of channels for the options that
       that specific type of channel supports. For  example,  see
       the manual entry for the socket command for its additional
       options.

       -blocking boolean
              The -blocking option determines whether I/O  opera-
              tions on the channel can cause the process to block
              indefinitely.  The value of the option  must  be  a
              proper  boolean  value.   Channels  are normally in
              blocking mode;  if a channel is  placed  into  non-
              blocking  mode  it will affect the operation of the
              gets, read, puts, flush, and  close  commands;  see
              the  documentation  for those commands for details.
              For nonblocking mode to work correctly, the  appli-
              cation  must  be  using the Tcl event loop (e.g. by
              calling Tcl_DoOneEvent or invoking the  vwait  com-
              mand).

       -buffering newValue
              If newValue is full then the I/O system will buffer
              output until its internal buffer is full  or  until
              the  flush command is invoked. If newValue is line,
              then the I/O system will automatically flush output
              for  the  channel  whenever  a newline character is
              output. If newValue is none, the  I/O  system  will
              flush  automatically  after every output operation.
              The default is for -buffering to  be  set  to  full
              except  for  channels that connect to terminal-like
              devices; for these channels the initial setting  is
              line.

       -buffersize newSize
              Newvalue  must  be an integer; its value is used to
              set the size of  buffers,  in  bytes,  subsequently
              allocated  for  this channel to store input or out-
              put. Newvalue must be between ten and one  million,
              allowing  buffers  of  ten  to one million bytes in
              size.

       -eofchar char

       -eofchar {inChar outChar}
              This option supports DOS file systems that use Con-
              trol-z (\x1a) as an end of file marker.  If char is
              not an empty string, then  this  character  signals
              end  of  file  when it is encountered during input.
              For output, the end of  file  character  is  output
              when  the  channel is closed.  If char is the empty
              string, then there is no special end of file  char-
              acter  marker.  For read-write channels, a two-ele-
              ment list specifies the  end  of  file  marker  for
              input  and output, respectively.  As a convenience,
              when setting the end-of-file character for a  read-
              write  channel  you can specify a single value that
              will apply  to  both  reading  and  writing.   When
              querying  the end-of-file character of a read-write
              channel,  a  two-element  list   will   always   be
              returned.   The  default  value for -eofchar is the
              empty string in all cases except  for  files  under
              Windows.   In  that  case the -eofchar is Control-z
              (\x1a) for reading and the empty string  for  writ-
              ing.

       -translation mode

       -translation {inMode outMode}
              In  Tcl  scripts the end of a line is always repre-
              sented using a single newline character (\n).  How-
              ever, in actual files and devices the end of a line
              may be represented differently on  different  plat-
              forms,  or  even  for different devices on the same
              platform.  For example,  under  UNIX  newlines  are
              used  in  files,  whereas  carriage-return-linefeed
              sequences are normally used in network connections.
              On  input  (i.e.,  with  gets and read) the Tcl I/O
              system automatically translates the  external  end-
              of-line  representation  into  newline  characters.
              Upon output  (i.e.,  with  puts),  the  I/O  system
              translates  newlines  to  the  external end-of-line
              representation.   The  default  translation   mode,
              auto,  handles  all the common cases automatically,
              but the -translation option provides explicit  con-
              trol over the end of line translations.
              The  value associated with -translation is a single
              item for read-only and  write-only  channels.   The
              value  is  a  two-element list for read-write chan-
              nels; the read translation mode is the  first  ele-
              ment of the list, and the write translation mode is
              the second element.  As a convenience, when setting
              the  translation  mode for a read-write channel you
              can specify a single value that will apply to  both
              reading and writing.  When querying the translation
              mode of a read-write channel,  a  two-element  list
              will  always be returned.  The following values are
              currently supported:

              auto   As the input translation mode,  auto  treats
                     any  of  newline (lf), carriage return (cr),
                     or carriage return  followed  by  a  newline
                     (crlf)  as  the  end of line representation.
                     The end  of  line  representation  can  even
                     change  from line-to-line, and all cases are
                     translated to  a  newline.   As  the  output
                     translation  mode,  auto  chooses a platform
                     specific representation; for sockets on  all
                     platforms  Tcl  chooses  crlf,  for all Unix
                     flavors, it chooses lf,  for  the  Macintosh
                     platform  it  chooses cr and for the various
                     flavors of Windows  it  chooses  crlf.   The
                     default setting for -translation is auto for
                     both input and output.

              binary No end-of-line translations  are  performed.
                     This  is nearly identical to lf mode, except
                     that in addition binary mode also  sets  the
                     end  of  file character to the empty string,
                     which disables it.  See the  description  of
                     -eofchar for more information.

              cr     The  end of a line in the underlying file or
                     device is represented by a  single  carriage
                     return  character.  As the input translation
                     mode, cr mode converts carriage  returns  to
                     newline  characters.  As the output transla-
                     tion mode, cr mode translates newline  char-
                     acters  to  carriage  returns.  This mode is
                     typically used on Macintosh platforms.

              crlf   The end of a line in the underlying file  or
                     device  is  represented by a carriage return
                     character followed by a linefeed  character.
                     As  the  input  translation  mode, crlf mode
                     converts carriage-return-linefeed  sequences
                     to newline characters.  As the output trans-
                     lation mode, crlf  mode  translates  newline
                     characters    to    carriage-return-linefeed
                     sequences.  This mode is typically  used  on
                     Windows  platforms  and  for network connec-
                     tions.

              lf     The end of a line in the underlying file  or
                     device  is  represented  by a single newline
                     (linefeed)  character.   In  this  mode   no
                     translations  occur  during  either input or
                     output.  This mode is typically used on UNIX
                     platforms.



SEE ALSO
       close(n), flush(n), gets(n), puts(n), read(n), socket(n)


KEYWORDS
       blocking,  buffering, carriage return, end of line, flush-
       ing, linemode, newline, nonblocking, platform, translation
