       flock options fileId ?start? ?length? ?origin?

              This  command  places  a lock on all or part of the
              file specified by fileId.  The lock is either advi-
              sory  or  mandatory,  depending on the mode bits of
              the file.  The lock is placed beginning at relative
              byte  offset  start  for length bytes.  If start or
              length is omitted or empty, zero  is  assumed.   If
              length is zero, then the lock always extents to end
              of file, even if the  file  grows.   If  origin  is
              "start",  then the offset is relative to the begin-
              ning of the file. If it is "current", it  is  rela-
              tive  to  the  current access position in the file.
              If it is "end", then it is relative to the  end-of-
              file  (a  negative  is  before the EOF, positive is
              after).  If origin is omitted, start is assumed.

              The following options are recognized:

              -read  Place a read lock  on  the  file.   Multiple
                     processes  may  be  accessing  the file with
                     read-locks.

              -write Place a write lock on the  file.   Only  one
                     process  may be accessing a file if there is
                     a write lock.

              -nowait
                     If specified,  then  the  process  will  not
                     block if the lock can not be obtained.  With
                     this option, the command returns  1  if  the
                     lock is obtained and 0 if it is not.

              See  your  system's fcntl system call documentation
              for full details of the behavior of  file  locking.
              If locking is being done on ranges of a file, it is
              best to use unbuffered file access (see  the  fcntl
              command).

              The  flock  command is not available on Windows 95.
              It is available on Windows NT.

              This command is provided by Extended Tcl.
