The ASTERIX X-ray Analysis Package

 ASTERIX provides a comprehensive set of tools for the reduction and
 analysis of X-ray data, ie. the conversion of raw instrument data
 into the images, spectra and other data products from which useful science
 can be derived. Although developed primarily for the analysis of data 
 from the German/UK/US ROSAT satellite, ASTERIX can now use data 
 supplied by other projects which use the internationally defined 
 standard data format.

 ASTERIX Version 2 consists of a number of related but stand alone 
 sub-packages including the kernel (utilities, graphics and image 
 processing), timing analysis, spectral analysis and the ROSAT interface.
 These are linked together by an online help system and a WWW help
 page for reporting bugs and making requests for enhancements.

 Two of the recent ASTERIX developments are highlighted below...



Image Processing

 The first Asterix GUI, {\bf Isys}, provides an easy to use alternative
 to the old command line image processing system. The aim is to combine
 the ease of use of the GUI with the ability to do quantitative analysis.

 Some of the features of Isys are,

  - Handles images in a variety of formats, and knows about astronomical
    coordinate systems if present

  - The user can define arbitrarily complex regions on which to operate.
    These regions can be cut and pasted, smoothed or manipulated in other
    ways.

  - An interactive colour table editor. A number of different scaling 
    algorithms are available to enhance different parts of the image 
    data range
    
  - An interactive background modeller and ability to run the ASTERIX source
    searching tool PSS from within the GUI

  - Access to online source databases and image data archives. Enables
    the user to overlay his image with a large number of source catalogues
    stored at Goddard Space Flight Centre, USA (see fig_1a), or to extract 
    images at other wavebands which lie at the same place on the sky

  - Plots can be exported to non-ASTERIX software, such as the XANADU QDP
    program 

 Caption to fig_1:

  The Isys main screen showing a ROSAT image of M82. The right hand panel
  shows the characteristics of the current region, in this case the whole
  image. Access to Isys functions can be through either the menus or using
  the tool bars present above the image display area.


 Caption to optional fig_1a

  The Isys HEASARC (Goddard archive) catalogue access dialogue. Isys offers
  the GUI's current celestial position and image size as the default for 
  the search, but these may be overridden.



Spectral Analysis

 The spectral analysis of much X-ray data is complicated by the poor 
 energy resolution of most X-ray detectors. When comparing observed 
 spectra with theoretical models the software must perform a quite complex
 transformation on the latter before the comparison can take 
 place. Sophisticated software tools are required to find the best
 model spectrum, estimate the uncertainties in that model and perform
 other associated tasks.

 The ASTERIX spectral fitting system supports multi-instrument fitting to 
 a wide variety of models. Included is an advanced $n$-dimensional gridding 
 tool, an example of whose output is shown in Figure 2.

 Caption to fig_2 if required:

  The figure shows the goodness of fit of a two temperature plasma model
  to a ROSAT spectrum, as a function of the temperatures in the model and
  overlaid with contours of the metallicity of the first component.

 The ASTERIX spectral fitting is evolving to tackle the needs of the newer
 X-ray CCD detectors, where the gains of higher resolution are balanced by 
 uncertainties in the theoretical plasma spectra and the difficulties of
 calibrating fine structure in the telescope response due to the CCD materials
 used. An imminent development is a spectral image fitting GUI which will
 allow interactive definition of spatial regions using {\bf Isys} and allow
 the energy dependent spatial blurring to be taken into account.
