NAME
       place  - Geometry manager for fixed or rubber-sheet place-
       ment

SYNOPSIS
       place window option value ?option value ...?

       place configure window option value ?option value ...?

       place forget window

       place info window

       place slaves window


DESCRIPTION
       The placer is a geometry manager for Tk.  It provides sim-
       ple  fixed  placement  of  windows,  where you specify the
       exact size and location of one window, called  the  slave,
       within another window, called the master.  The placer also
       provides rubber-sheet placement,  where  you  specify  the
       size  and location of the slave in terms of the dimensions
       of the master, so that the slave changes size and location
       in response to changes in the size of the master.  Lastly,
       the placer allows you to mix these styles of placement  so
       that,  for example, the slave has a fixed width and height
       but is centered inside the master.

       If the first argument to the place  command  is  a  window
       path  name  or configure then the command arranges for the
       placer to manage the geometry of a slave whose  path  name
       is window.  The remaining arguments consist of one or more
       option-value pairs that specify the way in which  window's
       geometry  is  managed.   If the placer is already managing
       window, then the option-value pairs modify the  configura-
       tion  for  window.  In this form the place command returns
       an empty string as  result.   The  following  option-value
       pairs are supported:

       -in master
              Master  specifes  the path name of the window rela-
              tive to which window is to be placed.  Master  must
              either  be  window's parent or a descendant of win-
              dow's parent.  In addition, master and window  must
              both  be  descendants of the same top-level window.
              These restrictions are necessary to guarantee  that
              window  is  visible whenever master is visible.  If
              this  option  isn't  specified  then   the   master
              defaults to window's parent.

       -x location
              Location specifies the x-coordinate within the mas-
              ter window of the anchor  point  for  window.   The
              location  is specified in screen units (i.e. any of
              the forms accepted by Tk_GetPixels)  and  need  not
              lie within the bounds of the master window.

       -relx location
              Location specifies the x-coordinate within the mas-
              ter window of the anchor point for window.  In this
              case  the location is specified in a relative fash-
              ion as a floating-point number:  0.0 corresponds to
              the  left edge of the master and 1.0 corresponds to
              the right edge of the master.  Location need not be
              in  the  range  0.0-1.0.   If both -x and -relx are
              specified for a slave then their values are summed.
              For  example,  -relx  0.5  -x -2 positions the left
              edge of the slave 2 pixels to the left of the  cen-
              ter of its master.

       -y location
              Location specifies the y-coordinate within the mas-
              ter window of the anchor  point  for  window.   The
              location  is specified in screen units (i.e. any of
              the forms accepted by Tk_GetPixels)  and  need  not
              lie within the bounds of the master window.

       -rely location
              Location specifies the y-coordinate within the mas-
              ter window of the anchor point for window.  In this
              case  the  value is specified in a relative fashion
              as a floating-point number:  0.0 corresponds to the
              top  edge  of the master and 1.0 corresponds to the
              bottom edge of the master.  Location need not be in
              the range 0.0-1.0.  If both -y and -rely are speci-
              fied for a slave then their values are summed.  For
              example,  -rely  0.5 -x 3 positions the top edge of
              the slave 3 pixels below the center of its  master.

       -anchor where
              Where  specifies  which  point  of  window is to be
              positioned at the (x,y) location  selected  by  the
              -x, -y, -relx, and -rely options.  The anchor point
              is in terms of the outer area of  window  including
              its  border,  if any.  Thus if where is se then the
              lower-right corner of window's border  will  appear
              at  the  given  (x,y)  location in the master.  The
              anchor position defaults to nw.

       -width size
              Size specifies the width for window in screen units
              (i.e.  any  of the forms accepted by Tk_GetPixels).
              The width will be the outer width of window includ-
              ing  its  border,  if  any.   If  size  is an empty
              string, or if no  -width  or  -relwidth  option  is
              specified,  then  the width requested internally by
              the window will be used.
       -relwidth size
              Size specifies the width for window.  In this  case
              the  width  is specified as a floating-point number
              relative to the width of the master: 0.5 means win-
              dow  will  be half as wide as the master, 1.0 means
              window will have the same width as the master,  and
              so  on.  If both -width and -relwidth are specified
              for a slave, their values are summed.  For example,
              -relwidth  1.0  -width  5  makes the slave 5 pixels
              wider than the master.

       -height size
              Size specifies the  height  for  window  in  screen
              units (i.e. any of the forms accepted by Tk_GetPix-
              els).  The height will be the  outer  dimension  of
              window including its border, if any.  If size is an
              empty string, or if no -height or -relheight option
              is  specified, then the height requested internally
              by the window will be used.

       -relheight size
              Size specifies the height for window.  In this case
              the  height is specified as a floating-point number
              relative to the height of  the  master:  0.5  means
              window  will  be  half  as  high as the master, 1.0
              means window will have the same height as the  mas-
              ter, and so on.  If both -height and -relheight are
              specified for a slave,  their  values  are  summed.
              For  example,  -relheight  1.0 -height -2 makes the
              slave 2 pixels shorter than the master.

       -bordermode mode
              Mode determines the degree to which borders  within
              the master are used in determining the placement of
              the slave.  The default and most  common  value  is
              inside.  In this case the placer considers the area
              of the master to be the innermost area of the  mas-
              ter,  inside  any  border: an option of -x 0 corre-
              sponds to an x-coordinate just  inside  the  border
              and  an  option  of -relwidth 1.0 means window will
              fill the area inside the master's border.  If  mode
              is  outside  then  the placer considers the area of
              the master to include its border; this mode is typ-
              ically used when placing window outside its master,
              as with the options -x 0 -y 0 -anchor ne.   Lastly,
              mode may be specified as ignore, in which case bor-
              ders are ignored:  the area of the master  is  con-
              sidered  to  be its official X area, which includes
              any internal border but no external border.  A bor-
              dermode of ignore is probably not very useful.

       If the same value is specified separately with two differ-
       ent options, such as -x and -relx, then  the  most  recent
       option is used and the older one is ignored.
       The  place  slaves command returns a list of all the slave
       windows for which window is the master.  If there  are  no
       slaves for window then an empty string is returned.

       The  place forget command causes the placer to stop manag-
       ing the geometry of window.  As a side effect of this com-
       mand  window will be unmapped so that it doesn't appear on
       the screen.  If window  isn't  currently  managed  by  the
       placer  then  the  command  has  no  effect.  Place forget
       returns an empty string as result.

       The place info command returns a list giving  the  current
       configuration   of   window.    The   list   consists   of
       option-value pairs in exactly the same form  as  might  be
       specified to the place configure command.  If the configu-
       ration of a window has been  retrieved  with  place  info,
       that  configuration  can  be restored later by first using
       place forget to erase any  existing  information  for  the
       window  and  then  invoking place configure with the saved
       information.


FINE POINTS
       It is not necessary for the master window to be the parent
       of  the  slave window.  This feature is useful in at least
       two situations.  First,  for  complex  window  layouts  it
       means  you can create a hierarchy of subwindows whose only
       purpose is to assist in the layout  of  the  parent.   The
       ``real children'' of the parent (i.e. the windows that are
       significant for the application's user interface)  can  be
       children of the parent yet be placed inside the windows of
       the geometry-management hierarchy.  This  means  that  the
       path  names  of  the  ``real  children'' don't reflect the
       geometry-management  hierarchy  and  users   can   specify
       options  for  the real children without being aware of the
       structure of the geometry-management hierarchy.

       A second reason for having a  master  different  than  the
       slave's parent is to tie two siblings together.  For exam-
       ple, the placer can be used to force a window always to be
       positioned  centered  just  below  one  of its siblings by
       specifying the configuration
              -in sibling -relx 0.5 -rely 1.0 -anchor n -bordermode outside
       Whenever the sibling is repositioned in  the  future,  the
       slave will be repositioned as well.

       Unlike  many  other geometry managers (such as the packer)
       the placer does not make any  attempt  to  manipulate  the
       geometry  of  the  master  windows or the parents of slave
       windows (i.e. it doesn't set their requested  sizes).   To
       control the sizes of these windows, make them windows like
       frames and canvases that provide configuration options for
       this purpose.
KEYWORDS
       geometry  manager, height, location, master, place, rubber
       sheet, slave, width
